PIET Hostels
......

Previous
Next
Poornima Hostels
Poornima Institute hostels are home away from home for the students and provide ample scope, opportunities and facilities for all round development of personality and leadership qualities among the students. Students participate effectively in the management of hostels, food services, games and sports, cultural and literary activities, professional societies in each school under the guidance of the Faculty Coordinator.

Coordinator. The Office of the Director, Student Welfare acts as a nodal centre for promoting collaboration and fellowship among students on campus. It is actively involved in coordinating activities for the welfare of the students. Taking into account their difficulties and socio-economic diversities, they get the facility to articulate their creativity and aspirations. Its objective is social harmony and campus peace. Students are encouraged to give expression to talents and enrich campus life, apart from fulfilling their academic goals. The office also makes arrangements for the residence, food, transportation, supervision and discipline of the students living in the hostel.

Youth events are organized regularly to promote competition in the cultural field with idle goodwill and cheer to promote competition in cultural fields. Inter college or Inter Hostel cultural activities are organised and supported to fulfil these objective. They attract highly talented and acclaimed participants besides appreciative audiences. Debates, symposia and quiz competitions on current issues are also organised in coordination with the student council. In addition to the above students are encouraged to partake in various college activities and sports events that are conducted throughout the year.

Life at Poornima Hostels and its advantages at a glance
It is said that home is sweet. But even then life at home cannot be compared to the life in a hostel. The greatest blessing of hostel life is independence. Apart from the general rules and regulations, which are to be followed necessarily by everyone, one is his/her own master. Here, life is full of opportunities and amusement. One is constantly in touch with young person of one's age. One can make friends with one's hostel fellows who have varied tastes and aptitudes. He/she may choose friends according to their own liking. In a hostel, a student comes in contact with a number of other students. He acquires many good qualities from them. When a student sees his/her next door neighbor daily taking morning exercise, he/she also gets inspiration for trying to be healthy. One good student may become an example for other 25 hostlers. When one is ill, all his hostel fellows try their best to serve him/her. Mutual cooperation, sympathy, and love are characteristics of hostel life. In nutshell it will not be an exaggeration to say that ‘only a hostel is the place where an all-round development of personality is possible’.

Basic Facilities
We have different types of rooms to choose from which you may opt to share with the student of same field or different field. The rooms are reasonably big and airy with windows for good natural light. They are semi-furnished with complete fittings to ensure a pleasant stay allowing them to concentrate on studies. Since you will choose nothing less than best therefore we provide a good, safe and secure home for your children.

Dining Facilities
Mess facility is an integral part of the campus that provides nutritious homely food to all hostellers, day scholars, faculty & staff members and visitors. It provides 4 meals a day. Quality food is prepared under strict hygienic conditions. The food is served in the dining area keeping all the sensitivities in consideration.
 All the hostel mess serves Vegetarian Food only and operates in self-service mode.
 The menu of the items is designed considering the requirements of the students and nutrition is added to make it healthy and complete.
 We offer morning tea with regular breakfast, lunch, evening snacks and tea, dinner and milk to all hostellers.
Mess caters to the tastes of the students of different region and students with varied food preferences. However there are certain guidelines that are to be followed while planning the meals. Mess menu is planned and managed by the management in consultation with the students. The hostel is equipped with a canteen offering variety of snacks and fruits available at reasonable prices in a very clean environment for the students.

Recreational facilities & Sports complex
Keeping in view the mental & physical growth of the students, the hostel provides an open ground for outdoor team games & athletics. A natural lawn has been laid to relax and to play games. Multi facility gym for hostel campus has been provided, which is fully equipped to keep the students fit and healthy. Indoor games like TT, Chess, Carom Board, Foosball and Pool have also been provided.

Health Care
The hostel provides healthcare facilities in addition to the facilities available to the residents. It has first aid facility and in case of any hospitalization, requisite arrangements are made with the hospital nearby. Mahatma Gandhi hospital is at walking distance from the hostels. Comprehensive information is provided on various diseases and health related issues like AIDS, cancer, smoking, alcoholism immunization and blood donation camps through mass release of pamphlets and posters.

Security- Safe & Secure Campus
Poornima Institute has a stringent security through CCTV Cameras, Fire warning Systems and 24 Hours Guards. The unauthorized persons and vehicles are not permitted to enter into the campus. Apart from it following are the characteristics features of hostels at Poornima Institute:
 Congenial atmosphere for study
 There is a fixed time for everything thus making students habitual
 students lead a disciplined life
 students learn regularity and punctuality
 students can get help from the brighter students
 increased aesthetical, cultural and  intellectual values
 students can also borrow books from one another
 students have the opportunity of reading newspapers
 students learn many useful lessons of life
 students have to do everything for themselves
 student creates in them the habit of self-reliance
 Festival celebrations
 Having great opportunity to develop social skills
 Much better records of attendance, results & placements as compared to non-hostellers
 Increased opportunity for students to become team leader for various fests of institutions as well as hostel
 Having various activities for skill enhancement
 Having various activities for placement preparation
 Having opportunity to actively participate in many Intra & Inter hostel competitions
 Learning experience to manage monthly expenses
 Negligible commute time from hostel to institution, thus saving time for other activities
 Hostellers get preference for attending campus sponsored events
 Huge academic support from friends & faculty members available 24x7
 Hobby oriented programs available
 Full access to all sports facilities
 Regular housekeeping & maintenance
 Hot water through solar water heater available throughout winters
 Purified & Chilled RO water
 Variety of items available at canteen and provision store
 100% Secured campus
 24x7 electricity backup
 24x7 Medical facilities and Ambulance for emergency purpose
 24x7 Wi-Fi facilities (for all Wi-Fi enabled gadgets)
 Complete Gymnasium with ultramodern equipment
 Laundry Facilities
 Guest house facility for parents
 TV room, Seminar Halls & Arbuda Convention Centre for watching movies and cricket matches.

ACCOMMODATION FACILITY FOR FACULTY & STAFF MEMBERS
To encourage faculty & staff members to stay in Poornima hostels, the management is offering affordable accommodation to its faculty & staff members.

Hostel Details
Poornima Group hostels namely Gayatri Girls Hostel , Aravali Boys Hostel , Gurushikhar Boys Hostel , Gargi Girls Hostel and Himalaya Boys Hostel are homes to students with residential capacity of 3000 students including 1100 girls and 1900 boys separately. We have a hostel built up of more than a million square feet where students feel at home and safe during any time of the day with utmost safety and security 24/7. All the hostels are constructed keeping in mind the student’s comfort and requirements having all basic facilities to give them good living conditions that are important for their growth.

Hostel Details
Important Documents
S. No	Document	Download
1	Hostel Form Student	Download
2	Employee Accomodation Form	Download
3	General Requirements of new hosteller	Download
4	Fee Structure	Download
