From the desk of Chairman (Emeritus)
about
Late Dr. S.M. Seth
Chairman (Emeritus)
Former Director,
National Institute of Hydrology, Roorkee
Radical changes are being generated by Globalization, especially with regards to how national economies and transnational corporations around the Globe are designing, producing, distributing and consuming products and services. With a superbly well laid out landscape/campus that spans over 5.73 acres, Poornima Institute of Engineering & Technology offers a unique academic environment of continuous influence and interaction, considered essential for the enrichment of mind and the body with maximum of speed and minimum of cost. Students are the touchstones of our college and are at the core of our vision and mission.


The college recognizes the abilities of its students very well and enables them to harness their potential and to grow and evolve them into successful professionals. At this unique institution located in Pink City-Jaipur, we nurture the academic skills, tune the aesthetic senses and work towards building a holistic culture that values the individuality of each student. Our focus remains on evolving efficient, confident and highly knowledgeable technocrats, managers and entrepreneurs with global thinking and futuristic mind-set that will contribute to nation building with simultaneous faith in corporate ethics.


To provide quality education, Poornima Institute of Engineering & Technology has a team of highly qualified and dedicated faculty members and has created a physical environment that supports teaching, learning, and research. I hope you will enjoy using the website and utilize the information available on it in a productive way. We very cordially invite you to visit our campus and see for yourself how Poornima is different and just in fifteen years of operation it has carved a niche for itself with excellent reputation.


I look forward to welcome you to Poornima Institute of Engineering & Technology and assure you that you will have exciting educational experience to help you fulfill your dreams.

JAI JAI POORNIMA SANSTHAN
JAI HIND
From the desk of Chairman
about
Ar. Shashikant Singhi
Chairman,
Poornima Group
A deep sense of appreciation, gratitude and joy surge through my heart as I greet you into the 16th year of existence of Poornima Institute of Engineering & Technology and its service to the nation. As I reminiscence over the 15 glorious years of PIET's growth, my heart fills with love, admiration and pride for the fertile soil which the College provides to the young technocrats who enter its portals to leave as responsible human beings as well as engineers. True to its motto “Gyanam Bina na kimapi Sadhyam” PIET always aspires to AIM HIGH, scaling great heights in its quest for EXCELLENCE in imparting human, intellectual, spiritual and moral formation to the students.


Having successfully crossed the various hurdles encountered on the way of its growth, PIET has grown in stature and strength today, and has become one of the finest educational institutions working dedicatedly in the pursuit of knowledge and excellence. To respond effectively and creatively to the crying needs of today's society we focus on an educational program which revolves around equipping our students with such qualities of head and heart that they confidently plunge into any field of activity which is socially USEFUL, intellectually ELEVATING and spiritually ENNOBLING. In an environment where everything is measured by the yardstick of success and outcome, we train our students to think logically, systematically & analytically, so that having faced the emerging technical, economic, social, political and cultural and changes arising from globalization, they may move towards their goals with focused VISION and OBJECTIVE.


Today PIET is not just a college but is a FAMILY in which the educational community, the management, staff, students, parents and alumni work together to foster this FAMILY SPIRIT. The entire atmosphere of PIET is permeated by this spirit, which promotes collaboration and cooperation leading to a human family of peace and harmony. With this spirit guiding us, we have made a deep impact in creating GOODWILL among all sections of society. I would like to make a special mention of the contribution of our ALUMNI in inspiring, motivating and encouraging our students. Be it any walk of life, there are towering POORNIMITES who are known for their competence and high levels of achievement, making a QUALITATIVE DIFFERENCE in today's world, at the state, national and international levels.


In the words of our great visionary Hon'ble Ex. President of India Late Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam: "Learning gives creativity, Creativity leads to thinking, Thinking provides knowledge, and Knowledge makes you great."


May the QUALITY EDUCATION we impart to our students in PIET, ENLIGHTEN their minds and ENTHUSE their hearts towards always AIMING HIGH.

JAI JAI POORNIMA SANSTHAN
JAI HIND
From the desk of Director
about
Ar. Rahul Singhi
Director,
Poornima Group
In the present times technology and innovation are not merely a demand or desire, but they have become the foundation for our lifestyle and society. With an impressive campus and well equipped infrastructure, Poornima Institute of Engineering and Technology which was established in the year 2007 under the aegis of Shanti Education Society, provides an academic environment which is unique, amiable and interactive.


We here at Poornima, recognize the abilities of our students very well and adequately educate and prepare them to harness their potential to the most and to evolve into not only successful professionals but also ethical citizens. We continuously strive for disciplined learning, research, creation and innovation. We incorporate lessons and exercises that urge the students to take care of genuine issues utilizing accessible technologies across their undergraduate educational program and proffer the society globally. We are likewise advancing learning both inside and outside the classroom. We nurture the academic skills, fine-tune the aesthetic senses and work towards building a holistic culture that values the individuality of each student. Our emphasis stays on advancing effective, certain and proficient technocrats and business visionaries with worldwide reasoning and cutting edge outlook that will add to country's progress with synchronous confidence in corporate morals.


I am sure you will be pleased to go through our website and the available information will prove useful and productive for you. I also invite you to visit our campus and see with your own eyes how it stands different from others.


I look forward to welcome you to Poornima Institute of Engineering & Technology and assure you that you will have a brilliant educational experience which will enable you to achieve your dreams and passion.

JAI JAI POORNIMA SANSTHAN
JAI HIND
From the desk of Principal
about
Dr. Dinesh Goyal
Principal,
Poornima Institute of Engineering & Technology
Warm Greetings!
Engineers don’t think the glass is half empty or half full. They just think the glass needs to be redesigned.


It gives me an abundant pleasure to welcome you all to the innovative & inventive world of Poornima Institute of Engineering and Technology, an eco-friendly campus coupled with the best infrastructure to help in attaining the highest standards in academic, research and professional excellence. Education is a multi-stage process of building character, acquiring knowledge and improving skills for life-long learning to lead a happy and peaceful life. Engineering education is discipline-specific and outcome based, which involves the application of basic principles of Mathematics and Science to solve practical engineering problems, to innovate newer technologies for providing feasible solutions to the futuristic challenges.

In contemporary world, the higher technical education is facing a tough challenge of facilitating the skilled manpower and technocrats to society. The need of an hour is highly challenging as well as demanding from the engineering students to be the best in overall development & employability skills. Hereby, the Poornima Institute of Engineering and Technology is highly committed to provide the best support system to its prospective young engineers for nurturing their dream and goal in the engineering field.


The aspiring students of PIET are exceedingly boosted for possessing leadership qualities with good subject knowledge and communication skills. The PIET is constantly and thoroughly devoted to update itself with the upcoming market trends in technical and societal requirements to fulfill the needs of students for surviving in the best ways in today’s competitive world. For this purpose, PIET provides the best motivated and continuously technically updating faculties to the students. The high level of teaching-learning process is always into higher consideration for the management and administration of PIET. The faculties are well trained and updated by attending meaningful Faculty Development Programs (FDP), Seminars, Conferences and by writing innovative research papers with students in every academic session along with other outreach activities of department.


We are the only institute in Rajasthan for establishing IDEA Lab. The PIET AICTE IDEA Lab provides a platform for students to convert their innovative ideas into tangible products, services, or start-ups. It encourages students to think creatively, develop problem-solving skills, and gain practical experiences in various domains. We have also proved our excellence by recent Quality Index Value (QIV) rankings by Rajasthan Technical University (RTU) which placed Poornima Institute of Engineering & Technology among the top three out of 98 affiliated engineering colleges regularly since last 05 years. Moreover, the PIET has proudly achieved the NBA accreditation for B.Tech Civil Engineering & B.Tech Computer Science program as being the 1st in Private Institutes and 1st amongst affiliated colleges and second in Rajasthan to achieve the same. We continuously aspire to maintain the excellent standards for unfolding the talents of our students for being the efficient technocrats. The Poornima Institute of Engineering and Technology has received the prestigious Platinum rating for being strong industry linked technical institutes. The PIET has established a very strong industry relations and having very efficient industry members in its advisory board. In present scenario, all the major recruiters of Industry like Infosys, Capgemini, IBM, Pinnacle, IMS, Torrent, Adani, GVK etc. are having our Alumni on their roles.

It is my pleasure to convey that the PIET is greatly providing a state of an art of infrastructure for the students to make them feel homely and comfortable in an excellent as well as stress free learning environment.

May God bless you always! My best wishes for your future endeavours!

Welcome to Poornima Family!

JAI JAI POORNIMA SANSTHAN
JAI HIND